Arlan Class 3 :) Litigation:
----------------------------
The greatest eye chatchers in an add are the color photos and the title

There is an advertising triangle to papers you start at the top and then go right and then down left like a backwards S

There are rules in place to make sure that the system doesnt get abused in litigation

We start with a plantiff and efendant

civil vs common law

common law system of jurence prudence 

Civil law system comes out of france germany and lusianna

criminal vs civil

civil is person v person

Criminal is person vs state

Common law is State vs so and so (criminal law) and then litigation or suits

jurance prudence is the whole framework

Jurance prudence: Civil or common law (doesnt apply to anyone but lusianna)
in common law the lawyers go out and get the information
The judge is there to make sure that things go through the motions and that law is applied based on facts

Judicial legistlative

Legistative write the laws

Jusdicial interpret the laws

Enforce the laws

Plantiff and defendant 

Starts with a Complaint and to serve it you have to delever a summons
After this the defendant returns an Awnser in 21 days
There are priliminary things before the trial including... (This is likea  planning phase for when things will happen as well)
Pleadings = complaint + awnser

Discovery: discover or reveal all the pertinent facts to the case
3 Types of discovery: Interogatories, REQuest for Docs, Depositions

Derogatories are confirm or denial statements
ie one derogatory is are you an employee at xyz between xyz 

Do not be in contempt of court!

Request for documents could be bank statements or random things related. This can be the biggest place for delaying a trial where you can have them sort through a bunch of nonsence
Large coroprations do this all the time by forcing people to sort through mountians of documents

Depositions: are under oath and the rules of evidence apply. THis is like a mini trial
Council will take a party into a room and ask them questions. This can envolve two cameras untethered to each other and lights and whatnot. 
This can be done on all witnesses including expert witnesses. 

Then you have a couple more meetings or "Motion practice"

After that is the trial

Motion practice can be very expensive and rack up cost. Courts like this because it makes case files very small.
These are like mini trials where someone makes a motion realted to the trial and a decition is made based on it

Joury trial. They decide liabillity or no liabillity This is like guilty or not guilty

Attend an hour of court and take notes
Take notes on paper
Dress in bussines casual or nice

Tell him about what went on and how it relates to my future in bussiness
First choice is a contract action
Second choice is any action in tort. Sombody did something wrong like stealing or neglagence
Third Choice is criminal case very last option
First hour is the core assignment worth 50 points
Stay another hour and take more notes for ten more points
Stay for another hour and another 5 more points for the thrid hour

supplimental proceding: an after trial thing that lawyers do to get an idea of how much you owe and what.

The court paper is when ever we deide it to be roughly two to three weeks from now.

Burdon of proof: when you have two parties against each other you have to be able to prove stuff
There are three burdens of proof. Criminal court: BARD - an indefinate assurity that something is true \. This system is bias toward the defendant
Civil: clear and convincing evidence (This is rare), or preponderance of the evidence. A slight toward one vs the other. In some sense this is 51 percent assuridy
Guilt held in criminal court can be used as liabillity in civil court

File the civil case immediatly then you make a tole on the other case to get evidence from criminal court. Then relaese it with guilt

clear and convincing is things like fraud and bad faith or gross neglegence
if you can prove this you can triple the settlements

Calender for court cases::

Stay with the big courts Third or fourth district
procedural actions are useless to attend
one of two phrases: oral arguments or trail
phelonany, contracts wrongful death battery, personal injury, conversion, nucance
https://www.utcourts.gov/cal/data/PROVO_Calendar.pdf