Arlens Class - Copyright
----------------------------
5 benefits of doing federal registration on your copyright

1. Prima Facie evidence that you are the copyright holder
2. Flips the burden of proof
3. Federal court Access 
4. Staturtory damages
5. Legal fees and costs Within 90 days of creation

^THis is just civil courts

Violating copyright is a crime
File your paper work then file for toll and then do the criminal action. After the criminal case do the civil action
Always be ethical with your suits and whatnot

Copyright everything you make. EVerytjing you create collect it together and make it a collection thing. Then make an anthollogy and go to copyright.gov and file it. 
Essentially this breaks it up into 90 day increments and you only pay like 140$ a year by filling as an anthology
Cleaner way to do it is to do it indivdually but this costs a lot
Essentially doing it as an anthology makes it much easier and cheaper to copyright stuff
------------------------------------------
Contracts
A contract is... A binding agreement between two parties
You have to have mutual value passed in order for it to be a contract. Ie you get this I get that. This is called consideration or value that changes hands
When you vialate a contract its called a breach. Breahes can be a number of things. This could be core detriments or material breaches
Often a material breach is something you have to littigate on. 

An agreement between two or more parties. A party can be an unnatural person
THere has to be consideration
There are things you want in a contract like kill fees or operating ina  timley mannor
There is no way to sign away your right to sue unless you have a gross neglegence.
Things like ski tickets are contracts of adhession.

THE COURTS WILL NOT SAVE PEOPLE FROM WHAT THEY ARGEE TO.

There are 5 sections to a contract
1. Recitals
(This is to clearly identify the parties and the nature of the contract. This is super important for high volume contractors)
For a court action a caption serves the same thing as a recital in a contract
[2. Definitions] the definitons section can be a section at the begining or end. This is kinda self explanitory. here you define what every term means
This can be in line as well
3. Body, this contains the previsons (Money, time, Specifications, calendering etc)
4. General provisions (terms that are in every contract. operative terms. Ie this is pretty much the same in every contracts)
5. Signature and or a notery. It is good to get a notery for every situation

A note on definitions: a defined term in a contract will use whats called Title Case. make sure you use title case because if you dont you are open to suits
