Arlen Class notes
--------------------
Intellectual property: Copywrite, trademark, and patent
CopyRight: Circle "C" or "P", if there is enough similarlity that an average person can identify it it is considered copyright infrigment, 
5 things federal registration wise
the second you create a creative or original experssion fixed in a medium
Jazz is improvised-however it isnt copyright because it wasnt fixed in a medium. Common law copyright is enacted as soon as things are put into a medium. 
Federal copyright law: copy right is registered but not cleared copyright.gov is the federal site for copyright. 
1. Prima facie evidence (on its face evidence)
2. FLIPS BURDEN of Proof
3. Access to federal court
4. Statutory Damages
5. Fees and Costs

Patent: "U.S. Pat. H.........", is a device formula or process and has to be original, useful, and nonobvious. USPTO, it costs generally 10,000 dollars to file for a patent
up to 25 years technically but it is more realistically 20, Patents are absolute meaning no one can use your patent without prior autorization. 
THis is an indefinate thing. So even if you make one yourself the original holder can still sue you. AFter the patent expires anyone can use your design.
Keep a timeline in mind because you have to start your submition at the start of making something. Say it takes 16 years to develop you are only really protected for 4 years
A patent aturney has to do their own bar and exams and can only do patents and no other law, 

Trademark: TM or circle R, USPTO, this is an image phrase or name that is connected to a brand, company etc. It is prorietory symbol like things that identify a company. 
trademarks are perpetual as long as you keep paying your registration fee. infrigment is when they are in the same bussiness as you and there is 
dillution where someone outside of the bussiness or thing uses the mark cost to register: barney Maddson from filmore spencer, 1000$~ 

FOr both patents and trademarks it can take years because they have to compare it to all the other things in their data base
Office actions - a USPTO rejection, this is why its so expensive to make a patent. This can take a long time beccause of paperwork failures