Arlen's class
---------------------
operative term of a contract
^general things in every contract

Venue/choice of law/Pers. Juris
^this is a general provision that states what place you will do court stuff if any
You need a personal juristiction clause so that you can have the court in some place that is convient

Dispute clause - This is where you will decide how the dispute will take place. You can also have clauses here where you can have attouney fees added
^ this might be an arbitration clause or mediation
Some of the best contracts can have all three options
^make sure that you have this in the contract

Nowaver - This is important because if you are being nice and let things in the contract slip then you can enforce previous problems

Meger or whole agreement clause

modifications clause/Amendments/Revitions

Counterparts
^ this is a clause that bassically says that the contract is applicable to multiple originals

Photocopies clause - means that all photocopies can be considered as original

No assignment - you cannot assign your duties to anyone without prior written concent. Something like that

Fungible goods - things that are interg=changeable

Authority clause - the person signing the paper is the person who is allowed to sign for the company
^ if the cross complaint goes through and fraud is found than you will have to pay 3 times as much

Conformed concent - Bassically says that you are ok with the contract and that someone has looked at it

Survial of terms - 

NDA/NCA/NCA nondiscolsure, noncuromvention, nondisclosure

work for hire DO NOT DO THESE

pronouns and headings - 

force majoir - higher force --in the event of fire flood etc... or anything that makes fulfilment of the contract difficult you get out or more time to do the thing

Get insurance for your comapny. or anything really. Also gt umbrella insurance so that you are covered abov your cap

cristian ministries. a coinsurance pool. - really just an insurance coop 

Time is of the essence - this is to ensure that timelines are important. you can include penalties on things for late deadlines

severabliity/intent - they are seperate clauses. severabliity: if a court determins that it isnt lawful then everything else is still enforced. Intent: the parties agree to 
	rewrite the provistions so that it closely resembles the first clauses

injunctive relif - specific performance. thou shalt 

Binding nature - is when the contract says that people and their priors are liable to the contract. Ie in a buyout the new company owns the contract

Cause of action: gives rise to a claim for relif "genuine issue as to a material fact."

Headings